Feat/backend bff (#321)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff.md

---
layout: post
title: "Bedrock's backend architecture and its front API Gateway"
description: "What is a BFF, and how does it simplify the development of frontend applications?"
author: v_claras
tags: [backend, php, api, api-gateway, back-for-front]
comments: true
color: rgb(255,128,0)
language: en
---

## Introduction

Ahoy there o/

> This article is the first in a series explaining the backend architecture we use at Bedrock.

Reviewer: je remplacerais "we use" par un truc qui nous implique plus 🤔. Peut-être "we designed" ou "we created"? Voire "we designed and use"?

> This first piece will be dedicated to the BFF. Without further delay, let's jump onto the subject!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This first piece will be dedicated to the BFF. Without further delay, let's jump into the subject!
```

> This first piece will be dedicated to the BFF. Without further delay, let's jump into the subject!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This first piece will be dedicated to the API we call 'BFF'. Without further delay, let's jump into the subject!
```

Author: I like the change, but I'm not sure how to turn it. It's not just a name, you wouldn't say "dedicated to the rectangle that we call sqare" :sweat_smile:

> ## So, what's a BFF?

Reviewer 3: Should we explain that BFF means Back For Front before using it later ?

Author: The goal of this paragraph is to explain it. Do you think it is needed to explicit it sooner?

For years, we have been using a microservices pattern [(1)](#notes). Each with their own responsibilities.
Backend and frontend development have long been decoupled.
This means that every frontend application had to know about each microservice, call them and know what to do with their data.

![old architecture](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/architecture-old.png)

This approach had three main limitations from a frontend point of view:
* It forced Bedrock to duplicate logic in each application.

> * It prevented us from deprecating legacy APIs.

Author: I'm not sure into getting into the details of the old model, it could be a complete and different article :sweat_smile:

* New features implied a frontend development and deployment.

> There was other downsides, which were mainly derivatives from those listed above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There were other downsides, which were mainly derivatives from those listed above.
```

> > As an example, updating an icon into the menu bar would make us deploy all applications, which is not always possible, and moreover, cannot be forced onto users without losing some of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> As an example, updating an icon into the menu bar required us to deploy all applications. It is not always easy nor doable, and cannot be forced onto users without losing some of them.
```

The BFF tries to answer those limitations!

> It's a single API [(2)](#notes) that handle all the frontend applications queries to display contents, navigation, or even start downloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's a single API [(2)](#notes) that handles all the frontend applications queries to display contents, navigation, or even start downloads.
```

> In addition, this gateway [(3)](#notes) gather all business logic. This is done in order to avoid repeating the logic in each application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, this gateway [(3)](#notes) gathers all business logic. This is done in order to avoid repeating the logic in each application.
```

> That's what we call a *Back For Front*!

Reviewer 3: Ok, you do it here 👌

> That's what we call a *Back For Front*!

Author: I've added this into the conclusion :D

> ![BFF stands for Back for Front, and not Best Friends Forever here](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/bff.png)

Reviewer 4: The logo is too big.
And the image do not illustrate that BFF mean Back For Front instead of Best Friend Forever

Author: I have no idea how to tell the blog to resize the picture, and place it on the left, so I'm gonne remove it :sweat_smile:

> ![old architecture](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/architecture-new.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Our new BFF API Gateway + microservices architecture](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/architecture-new.png)
```

> The first main advantage is to abstract the backend complexity to the frontend teams.

Reviewer: Je ne sais pas si on dit "to the frontend teams" ou "for the frontend teams" ? mais "to" me semble bizarre…
(c'est peut-être mon anglais qui est imparfait, aussi ^^)

Author: When I translate the other way around, I get a "for", changing it ;)

> In the previous model, each application had to know where each data came from, how to parse it, and what to do with it.

Reviewer: Ca serait "joli" ("effrayant", quoi) si tu avais un screenshot de la console web d'un navigateur, qui montre des dizaines d'appels API…

Author: J'ai pas du tout ça en stock ^^

In the new model, we can easily deprecate an API, replace it, change how the data is stored or returned.

> To do so, we only need the team leading the change, and the team that handles the BFF to work together at their own pace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, we only need the team leading the change and the team handling the BFF to work together at their own pace.
```

In the new model, we can easily deprecate an API, replace it, change how the data is stored or returned.
To do so, we only need the team leading the change, and the team that handles the BFF to work together at their own pace.
They can decide, depending on the change, how to handle the migration.
They might decide to use a new endpoint to be switched at some point, or add a new attribute in the response, etc.

All those changes will happen without any frontend application noticing it.

> ### Anonymization of the data

Reviewer 5: By ANONYMIZATION OF THE DATA

> ### Anonymization of the data

Reviewer 5: Yes more related to the following section for me. Thanks

> ![old presentation](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/presentation-old.png)

Reviewer: j'ai un peu de mal à comprendre la problématique que représente ce schéma

aussi, "old presentation" en alt/title de l'image, c'est un poil bref et peu descriptif ;-)

By taking all this responsibility to a single API, we can now translate the data from the APIs to a single unified representation that all applications can use.

> ![new presentation](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/presentation-new.png)

Reviewer: aaaah avec ce second schéma, je comprends que le rectangle au milieu c'est une page web (ou équivalent) \o/. Chose que je ne comprenais pas sur le précédent ^^

![new presentation](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/presentation-new.png)

> This representation is maintained by the BFF in a single openapi schema [(4)](#notes). It shares the same concepts in between the multiple endpoints of the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This representation is maintained by the BFF in a single openapi schema [(4)](#notes). It shares the same concepts between the multiple endpoints of the API.
```

In the picture(above and below), the central block shows the application screen. You can see that the application page is split into two parts.

The top is answered by the navigation endpoint which gives a list of groups and entries.
Every entry can have nested groups, and an action.

The second part is what we call the *layout*. It's a representation of the page, composed of multiple blocks, each with a list of items.
Each item has a title, a description, an image, and an action (the same type as in the entries).

This makes the BFF responsible for what to display in the page, and in which order and how to display it.
How to display things is described through template strings that tell how to display each block.

> It's important to understand that the BFF does not return HTML, but only a json response that needs to be parsed and interpreted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BFF does not return HTML! It returns a JSON string that needs to be parsed and interpreted by the applications.
```

Every application still has to care about its design system, what font to use, which iconography.

> This means that a template `Card` might not be displayed exactly the same between a Computer, a Mobile or a TV; even if the data are the same.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This means that a template `Card` might not be displayed exactly the same between a computer, a mobile phone or a TV; even if the data are the same.
```

![presentation explanation](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/presentation-explanation.png)

There are other usages to the BFF [(5)](#notes), such as handling downloads, and some others to come, but it shares the same concept by answering to the front something to display.

> ### Keeping the logic in one piece

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Keeping all logic in one piece
```

> There are other usage to the BFF [(5)](#notes), such as handling downloads, and some others to come, but it shares the same concept by answering to the front something to display.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are other usages to the BFF [(5)](#notes), such as handling downloads, and some others to come, but it shares the same concept by answering the front something to display.
```

### Keeping the logic in one piece

The last main gain with the BFF, is that we're able to put all the logic in one place.
This allows us to update and change the business rules at any time.

> Here is a few examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are a few examples
```

> > When a user tries to navigate the application, if he uses a new device while he has already reached the limit of allowed devices, we can display a layout asking him to delete the device first.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
> When a user tries to navigate the application, if he uses a new device while he has already reached the limit of allowed devices, we can display a layout asking him to delete a device first.
```

> When a user tries to navigate the application, if he uses a new device while he has already reached the limit of allowed devices, we can display a layout asking him to delete the device first.

> This limit can be removed or changed at any time in all application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This limit can be removed or changed at any time in all applications.
```

> > In france, all explicit contents must be filtered out during daytime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In France, explicit contents must be filtered out during daytime
```

> In france, all explicit contents must be filtered out during daytime

If this rule changes, we will do so directly in the BFF, and no application will ever notice it.

## Conclusion

The model known as back for front or API Gateway is nothing new and other major services already use it.

> We've been using this model for more than 3 years now. It has undergone some major update [(6)](#notes) but this is a model we're happy with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've been using this model for more than 3 years now. It has undergone some major updates [(6)](#notes) but this is a model we're happy with.
```

> ![BFF stands for Back for Front, and not Best Friends Forever here](/images/posts/2022-06-08-backend-bff/bff.png)

Reviewer: Ahahaha 😂 ça répond à un truc que je disais plus haut ^^

That's all for today's post!
In the next part we will talk about handling the failures of the dependencies the BFF is calling, and what to do to always answer something usable by the applications.

## Notes

1. For more details about microservices, you can read [this piece from AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/microservices/)
2. There are some other APIs called by our applications, such as the authentication service, but let's not get lost into details…
3. There's a lot of resources about API Gateway, here is [one from nginx](https://www.nginx.com/learn/api-gateway/)
4. Open API is used to define the communication standards between our BFF and the clients, more explanation on the [dedicated website of the organization](https://www.openapis.org/)

> 5. In addition to note 1, we are currently moving to the api gateway model, and some behavior still requires the application to call dedicated microservices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. In addition to note 1, we are currently moving to the api gateway model, and some behaviors still require the application to call dedicated microservices.
```

6. ( in French 🇫🇷 )[An old conference](https://afup.org/talks/3241-6play-api-v2-final-1-doc) from 2020 given by Benoit VIGUIER, previous Team Lead in charge of the BFF, about API gateway and asynchronous development.

## From the same series

> 1. [What's a BFF](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/2022/06/10/backend-bff.html)

Author: I add to update the date to 06/08 to make the preview works, I will update it :+1:

---

> In the meantime, feel free to have a look at other articles available on this blog:

Reviewer: Ces articles ne me semble pas très liés au contenu de celui-ci.
=> est-ce que cette section a un intérêt ?

Author: C'est pour référencer des articles différents du blog, j'ai eu l'impression que c'était la coutume ^^
